Let's now talk about forms and Angular
Support for Forms and Form Validation.
You have already realized that forms are
an integral part of designing any website.
Forms are a way for users to provide
information to their website.
So, how does Angular support forms or what
kind of features does Angular provide for
us, to enable support for
forms and Form Validation?
This is what we will
explore in this lecture.
Angular and
forms are like two peas in a pod.
They work together very well,
in a straight forward manner.
Because of the two-way data
binding that Angular provides,
it's very easy to match up
form fields to the JavaScript
objects that you can use
within your Angular coach.
Now, how do we go about doing this?
We can define JavaScript objects on
the scope, in our controller for example,
and the controller could be controlling
a part of the page which contains a form.
Now you can easily match up
the input fields in the form.
Or the other form fields to
appropriate JavaScript variables
using the ng-model directive.
We have already seen this in action,
in some of the earlier examples and
the exercises that we considered.
Now, as an example,
let's look at how we would define a Java
Script variable inside a controller.
In this example, you can see me
defining this JavaScript object,
called as feedback on the scope.
Now within the form itself, I am
matching this input field of the form to
a property of this JavaScript object,
using the ng-model directive.
So for the ng-model I specified
as feedback, First Name.
So, whatever changes I make in this
form field will be automatically
reflected to the property
in the JavaScript object.
So, this is fairly straightforward for
transferring information from or
to the form, from the JavaScript code.
If you have select elements in your form,
then Angular provides a wonderful
way of managing the select elements.
You can define a JavaScript
object array in your code.
As you see in this example, I defined this
channels object array, in the code and
then I will hang those channels on
to the scope in the JavaScript code.
And then in my form
element declaration for
the select,
I can specify using the ng-model,
I can match up the selection that
I do using this select statement
to a property in my JavaScript
object in the code.
Similarly I can use the ng-options
directive to be able to make use of
the various JavaScript objects that are
defined in the JavaScript object array.
And make use of them to define
the options in my selected statement.
So, in this example, you can see that
I am defining channel in channels for
the ng-options towards the last
part I say channel in channel.
So every object that is part
of the channel's JavaScript
object array, I'm looking at each one of
them and then I am using the first part.
Look at how I define
channel.value as channel.label.
Now, so, the channel.label,
so the label property
of that object is gonna be use as
the label for my select options.
And then when I make that selection
of that particular option,
then the channel value
that I specify here,
will be assigned as the value
that is gonna be assigned using
the ng-model to the JavaScript
property in my code.
So whatever the channel value, that will
be assigned to the feedback, mychannel,
that I defined in
the ng-model directive there.
So this way I can ensure that
I can dynamically generate
the options in the select element.
In addition, I can give a default
prompt option value there, so
you can see that I have specified option
value blank string, Tel or Email there.
So that would be displayed as
the default value in the options,
and then it'll force the user
to select an option value.
Form validation in Angular is again,
very well supported.
You can verify any of the input fields and
the value that you supply in
the input fields, very easily using
Angular Support for Form Validation.
Let's explore this in
a little more detail.
Now, HTML5 comes with validation
support for the form fields.
Now, if you are using Angular,
you may wish to turn off the HTML5s
built in support and instead, let Angular
take over the validation of the form.
So, to do that for the form cloud form,
I will specify the novalidate
option when in the form tac.
Also, when the form is submitted,
I can have the form
invoke a JavaScript function
in my controller, for example.
So using the ng-submit directive here,
I can specify a function which will be
called when the user submits this form.
So, inside that function I can
handle the submission of the form.
So, for example, inside that function I
may issue an AJAX call from the JavaScript
code in order to send over the information
to a server in the backend.
To make all this work,
you need to give the form a name.
So the name attribute should
be specified for the form.
So in this example, I am specifying
the name as feedbackForm, and
that will enable me to
access various properties
that I can use for
validation of the form input elements.
All the form fields that are available
within your form will be validated by
Angular, by default, before
the values is assigned to the scope.
So if a particular input field
does not validate properly,
so the value will not be transferred
to the JavaScript object,
the corresponding property of
the JavaScript object in my code.
Some directives that you can specify for
the fields is including,
ng-minlength, ng-maxlength,
to specify the minimum and
the maximum length of the input that the
user can provide with the name put fields.
You can also use ng-pattern,
where you can specify a regular
expression, and
let angular verify that the input that is
entered by the user matches
this regular expression.
So that's a very valuable way of verifying
input that the user
provides in those fields.
Any field that you have within your forms,
if you give names to those fields
you can easily use certain
properties that Angular attaches to
those names to check for values.
So for example,
if I give my form a name as feedback form,
and then an input element.
If I give the name as first name,
then by default Angular hands
four different property
values to these field names.
So, you can use that within the HTML code,
and
also within the JavaScript code
in order to verify values.
The fourth property is that Angular
associates are pristine, dirty,
valid, and invalid.
If the pristine property,
so for example for
a field if you wanna verify that
the field is pristine you can say
feedback from firstName.$pristine.
That will be true if that
field has not been touched or
not been modified in any way by the user.
The opposite of it is dirty.
So dirty if it is true, then that
feed has been touched by the user.
Similarly, valid and invalid.
Valid will be true if the input
value in the field is a valid
input that can be accepted.
If not,
the valid flag will be set to false.
So these four properties
allow us to easily verify
various form inputs that
we use it supplies.
Now how will we actually make use of this?
Now this is where you can use these
properties in order to check and
then deliver validation results
to the user on the form.
So for example, if a field is invalid,
you could highlight that by
turning that field into red color.
To give feedback to the user saying,
look this doesn't work correctly.
Now fortunately if you're using Bootstrap,
Bootstrap already provides a lot of
CSS classes that enable you to set up
validation states for various fields.
So within Bootstrap we
have the .has-error,
.has-warning, .has-success
classes available.
You can specify those classes with,
for example,
the form group divs that you use or
other elements within your form.
Also there is this help block
class that is available that will
enable you to display helpful messages.
Let's look at an example of how we can
make use of this within our form fields.
This is an example of how I am using
those pristine, their valid and invalid.
Now the pristine valid invalid are also
associated with the form itself, so
you can say feedbackForm.pristine, meaning
the entire form is a pristine or not.
Similarly feedbackForm.$valid,
meaning whether the entire
form is valid or not.
If all the fields are valid,
the entire form will be valid.
If any of the fields of
the form is not valid,
the entire form will be
declared as invalid.
Now, let's look at the form
validation usage within our code.
So in here I am specifying for
the div class.
I am using the ng class.
Directive, to apply the has-error and
has-feedback classes to the entire div.
And the right side of it, so I specified
feedbackForm.emailid.$invalid and
feedbackForm.emailid.$pristine and
not feedbackForm.emailid.$pristine.
So which means that these two classes
will be obliged to this form group.
If the emailid is invalid, and
the field itself, is not pristine,
or the field, itself, is dirty.
So I could easily say
feedbackForm.emailid.$dirty.
When both these conditions are valid,
then these two classes are gonna
be applied to this div.
Now, the has-error class,
when you apply to the div.
It will end up showing
the entire input field and
the label in red color.
So that's a very nice, visual feedback
that you can provide to the user.
Not only that,
you can also use span fields inside,
and for the span field,
if you specify the classes help block.
Then whatever value you specify
into the span, that span field or
rather the span tag will be displayed
underneath the input field of your form.
So for example, here I would say
feedbackForm.emailid$invalid and
not feedbackForm.emailid.$pristine,
then I would
be able to display this message saying,
enter a valid email address,
in red color underneath the input field.
So that's another way of
delivering a message to the user.
Now, using the has-feedback class.
Now the has-feedback class,
when it is used,
I can also include glyphicon's inside
the input fields in bootstrap.
So here I am using this glyphicon
called glyphicon-remove.
And also specified it as
form-control-feedback.
Now when I do this,
this will display a cross,
red cross sign, inside the input
field if that input field is invalid.
So that's one more way of
delivering feedback to the user.
So, hopefully,
that has given you a quick introduction to
how you can set up forms and
do Form Validation in Angular.
We'll now move on to the next exercise
where we will make use of all that we have
learned in this lecture, and
apply it to a form in our Web page.
So we are going to use Angular support for
fonts.
We're gonna establish two way data
binding between the form fields and
a JavaScript object.
We're gonna use Angular support for
Form Validation and
also you will explore how you can do Form
Validation inside the JavaScript code.
Now, for the select element,
I'm going to do form validation
inside the JavaScript code.
So that's another way of
doing Form Validation.
Let's move onto the next exercise.